I first finish some documenting on how to handle the following:

5. SLURM and Snakemake
Specifying how workflows get run gets complicated. The real basics are that:
* We first define some default resources. These are pieces of information that Snakemake passes at runtime at the CLI so that SLURM can do its job.
I now specify a file ~/.config/snakemake/myprofile/config.yml that looks like:
<code>executor: slurm
default-resources:
  slurm_account: "your_account_here"
  slurm_partition: "your_partition_here"</code>
This defines the minimum required information for running a Snakemake workflow as a Slurm job. The config file was created using Claude.
CITE:https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/v7.19.1/executing/cluster.html#specifying-account-and-partition [need to specify default resources like account and partition]
CITE:https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/v7.19.1/executing/cli.html#profiles [how to generate profiles that automatically sub in default resources]

_NOTE: I refuse to define default resources for CPUs, memory, threads, etc. in the default resources. I want to force myself to explicitly give performance requirements for all rules!_
_I also don't assign default resources for things like number of tasks, number of nodes etc. in SLURM. I just don't want to touch that stuff for now. You should use number of cpus as a map for threads. I assume there is only 1 task and 1 node per run._
CITE: https://login.scg.stanford.edu/faqs/cores/

* For each rule, we can then provide specific information for SLURM in the resources directive. How to do that is described here:
CITE: https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/v7.19.1/executing/cluster.html#advanced-resource-specifications
Unfortunately for us, recording job name is difficult, so I won't be supporting that for now. You'll have to rely more on logs, etc.

I finished decorating the example Snakefile at 1_fastqc/Snakefile.

Then I check the Snakefile using the DAG.
* From now on, it's a good idea to have a basic conda environment that can handle Snakemake and Graphviz.
<code>conda install graphviz</code>

Some modifications to the Snakefile:
* I fixed the syntax for assigning resources, like all directives this involves a variable assignment, not a YAML style list (equals sign, not colon)
* input directives cannot handle the directory() wrapper--you can simply pass the name of the directory as a string literal ("directory")
* I filled out the SAMPLES list at the top of the Snakefile. The samples aren't well organized in the input directory (which is pangenie_te/data), so using expand() won't be easy.
   * I will have to learn to use expand() or a config file to pass inputs, but not wildcards (which don't work like globs in bash, remember?)

I can run the command:
<code>snakemake --dag | dot -Tpdf > dag.pdf</code>

And then move the resultant dag.pdf to ~/public_html and access it at https://wangcluster.wustl.edu/~atran/.

Next, I should:
I run basic phasing and consider some options for testing:
* Possible tests?

Finally, I create a basic Snakemake workflow for phasing and run it.