June 9th, 2026.

I wrote a MultiQC script. This script spins up its own conda environment based off the environment yaml file for that step if it doesn't exist. This basic control of conda environments works by checking <code>conda env --list</code> using grep for the name of the expected environment.

The script then goes into the results directory of FastQC and summarizes all of the files there.

I wrote the multiqc.yml file that creates the multiqc environment. I've confirmed with a run on the old servers that this does work. However, it turns out that conda's docs for the command for how to create an environment are wrong, and you need to use <code>conda env create --file multiqc.yml</code>. I've modified this logic in multiqc.sh.
Cite: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56871882/condavalueerror-the-target-prefix-is-the-base-prefix-aborting

I haven't worked on writing down the multiqc version because I'm not actually sure which version of MultiQC that conda will download. Ideally, of course, it will be the most recent one. The link below includes a general syntax for an environment.yml file and includes a description for how to restrict the versioning, if you want to be even more reproducible.
Cite: https://rse.shef.ac.uk/conda-environments-for-effective-and-reproducible-research/04-sharing-environments/index.html

I am also working on the Snakefile for running step 1. The best tutorial is the old Snakemake ReadTheDocs:
https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/v5.1.4/tutorial/

A few new ideas, new features, and changes came up as I was implementing Snakemake as the orchestrator for this step:
1. You can specify directories as outputs, not just files. Snakemake can also decide that a directory needs to be _modified_, i.e. if the folder is empty but exists Snakemake will still update things inside of it. Then, its existence/need for modification is treated as part of how the DAG is set up.
CITE: https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/stable/snakefiles/rules.html#directories-as-outputs
2. Use of the _conda_ directive should now be my way of managing conda environments per step. It uses the same yaml set up I used previously, but I no longer need to manage the logic on my own. I should also try to keep the versioining for each downloaded package consistent, so I can't just go around not knowing what version of MultiQC I'm using.
CITE: https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/v5.1.4/tutorial/additional_features.html#automatic-deployment-of-software-dependencies

For the next tips, you'll want to look at the:
Basic workflow: https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/v5.1.4/tutorial/basics.html#summary
Advanced workflow: https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/v5.1.4/tutorial/advanced.html#summary

3. rule all
This very simple rule sits on top of the file and defines the entire set of target files we want. That's usually why rule all uses things like expand() to create a comprehensive list of targets to meet.

e.g.

rule all:
input: A_final.txt, B_final.txt

rule1:
input: {sample}_start.txt
output: {sample}_tmp.txt

rule2:
input: {sample}_tmp.txt
output: {sample}_final.txt

The _wildcards_ are defined _per run_. That is, the wildcards tell rule 2 to get a file that looks like {sample}_tmp.txt and return a file that has the same starting prefix, but with _final. The input then will have to look for something with the same prefix, but with _tmp! Obviously, that's generated by rule 1, and the DAG _propagates the exact same wildcard value up for that individual run. Inputs prime wildcard values and hold it FIXED for a given run.

So how do we prime the wildcard values at the very beginning? The answer is rule all, which only takes an input, where it expects a list of values. This primes the wildcard through {sample}_final.txt, and we will get two runs here, one for A_final.txt and one for B_final.txt.

4. Input functions/Config files/expand
_Wildcards_ are set up during DAG time, as we discussed above. That propagating of values over runs is part of the DAGification.

expand() works at initialization,prior to DAG. That makes it useful for setting up DAGification later. expand() is a function that takes a formatted string, something like {sample}{num}.bam, and lists of strings e.g. [A, B], [1,2]. It then produces the full combinations between them all, e.g. [A1.bam, B1.bam, A2.bam, B2.bam]. But this is all one list. We use it for functions that take lots of arguments, think of things like xargs or bcftools call A.bam B.bam C.bam... we are not running bcftools call 3 times, one for each sample, but once with multiple arguments. That's why the bcftools call step uses expand.

As an additional note, YAML files can be parsed like dictionaries of dictionaries. So config["samples"] gives a list of strings, but each string is the key to a value in the "samples" dictionary. That's why the expand syntax in the advanced tutorial works.

Input functions use wildcards, of the syntax <code>lambda wildcard : config["samples"][wildcard.sample]</code>. It's just a function that you can define on the fly and pass around, and it takes the argument wildcard. _wildcard.sample_ just accesses a _wildcard_, the reason it's used here instead of the bcftools call rule is because bwa map only takes ONE argument, and that needs to be defined at DAG time for EACH RUN. Therefore, we need a wildcard! When Snakemake receives a lambda function, it will pass the _wildcard_ object that stores wildcards to the lambda function so that it can be extracted. Of course, an easy way to handle this would just be to use {brackets} and a global Python list SAMPLES, like in the basic workflow.

Basically, the advanced workflow uses the config file to be a bit more explicit, and teaches us how expand() creates an _aggregated_ list of values, useful for e.g. rule all. It also teaches input functions, and accessing the wildcard object. But the basic workflow just uses the aggregation part of the bcftools call rule to propagate wildcard values for all runs up to its predecessor rules.

5. SLURM and specifying threads.
6. Snakefile includes
7. Script directive